There's a beautiful old oak tree outside
my office window. It's full of twists
and turns. Some branches are withered,
others are massive and robust. I think
all of us are like that tree. Its shape
wasn't designed. It's simply the result
of growing toward available sunlight,
drawing nutrients where it could. That's
how all of us develop. Our early
environments shape us, and we grow in
response to those conditions. The tree's
shape tells the story of its resiliency
and the compromises it had to make in
order to grow and survive. One cannot
appreciate the tree's beauty without
also accepting its history. In other
words, its shape. Try to do the same
thing for yourself. Try to see your own
beauty. It doesn't mean that you can't
change or grow, but it does mean that
you can't go back in time and be a
different tree planted in a different
place.
The world is better with my favorite
tree, even with all of its twists and
turns.